# FY18 10x Project Results

## Phase One. **Investigation**

**Government-wide User Testing Program** — Continued to next phase. [Final report here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1HxCFhc27NguZwervykWLG8NMLAryWoPFQ1BiPKe-yAI/edit#heading=h.r9d3o4h63t06). Decision was made to continue this project at the $175k Discovery phase. It is clear that federal agencies face a host of barriers to conducting user research and testing. A government-wide resource helping unblock the most common barriers (such as PRA interpretation, user recruitment, a need for better design and research tools and resources, and an overall understanding of the value of research) would enable federal agencies to more effectively conduct user research and make smarter decisions when building or buying products. 

**Qualitative Data Management** — Continued to next phase. [Final report here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1InUpl7v3wa0v05JYCB8-atoDene9-Gzbz-ELY7OPVKY/edit#heading=h.7n91pqag6jmk). Decision was made to continue this project at the $175k Discovery phase. There’s much work to be done in this space, and the value is likely to offer significant gain in both how we communicate with citizens searching for information on government services, as well as improving the rate at which we incorporate valuable public feedback into our services and products. 

**Human-Centered Design of Shared Services** — Continued to next phase. [Final report here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/14CTh8Jxrhqo6LnvxihxzCUTQ5r02pSnTrMCFCFgoI38/edit#heading=h.lcvy8u5agord). Decision was made to continue this project at the $175k Discovery phase. Transitioning to using shared services is usually challenging for agencies and we see substantial opportunity for TTS to help make shared services across the government best serve the agencies’ missions.

**Open Source Translation Services** — Continued to next phase. [Final report here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1TkOpvhNiMdkT73dv5-oefKPSSuomfGUY3DIeq9hx5vA/edit) and presentation [here](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1F-2lkGwLTJqIxkUvugBhqofBKbRtcArdX6i8mm0n0uY/edit#slide=id.p). Decision was made to continue this project at the $175k Discovery phase. There is an opportunity to help consolidate and automate existing translation workflows using shared translations and terminology across the federal government.

**Government-wide Individual Time Tracking And Reporting (GITTAR)** — Ended at this phase. [Final report here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/14uWbil7Igqo6SljiDVYq287X4KX5Bbg8Fm3SVBt1dRs/edit?ts=5ad13c91#). Decision was made to not continue the project at this time, as there’s not currently enough demand, across government, for the development of new time-tracking tools.

**Government-wide Product Market Research** — Continued to next phase. [Final report here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1zPXqs4k20GX0Y8KT5HAY1f6a66I5YqvoiLYMLOZ7dis/edit?ts=5ae8f777#heading=h.lcvy8u5agord). Decision was made to continue this project at the $175k Discovery phase. Conversations with representatives from GSA and other agencies reveal there’s much work to be done in this space. Continued research into — and the eventual creation of — a Cloud Marketplace tool would offer significant improvements in how federal employees learn about, research, and buy software, ultimately saving time that could be spent on other mission-critical activities.

**Improving Compliance with the Paperwork Reduction Act** — Continued to next phase. [Final report here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1xGolKrn25i8n6vWov4IFKjI_GRD3wO-fJ0hcx6_cSdQ/edit#heading=h.dzrcnhkmlw3n). Decision was made to continue this project at the $175k Discovery phase. There is an opportunity to further investigate developing resources, due to a substantial amount of uncertainty stemming from inconsistent determinations and processes specific to the PRA, as well as hard-to-find information that is often incomplete or inaccurate.

**Data Maturation Plan** — Continued to next phase. [Final report here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1T2INAHyrKSmh5FQJUmxf4aDzb6-_Aga1ZxVevS-TFNA/edit?ts=5b200e91#). Decision was made to continue this project at the $175k Discovery phase. Problems arising from the lack of a modern data infrastructure, supporting architecture, and governance plan in government abound -- from finding owners; recording and communicating issues; unifying disparate sources of data efficiently -- and affect all agencies.  A related set of issues arise from an inconsistent set of standards and resources supporting efforts to deploy modern machine learning/AI tools and techniques to make federal employees’ jobs and government operations easier and more efficient. 

**Improving Access to Government Housing Assistance** — Continued to next phase. [Final report here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/14lbLywxPOifNTXO5OFpjwtWbcoZbURSmoF40n7PmN3o/edit?ts=5b200e58#heading=h.lcvy8u5agord). Decision was made to continue this project at the $175k Discovery phase. The highest value area for TTS to explore next with HUD are the points of failure in the system -- with a special focus on parts of the application that users find hard to understand or fill out.

**Legacy Modernization Education Pilot** — Continued to next phase. [Final report here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1qqClAAzMmns_K747LrcC-PkHOVKxUp2O9jtlfg8OKG4/edit#heading=h.lcvy8u5agord). Decision was made to continue this project at the $175k Discovery phase. The project team identified allies in this space, who are generally working in isolation, and we’ve found powerful levers that 18F can use to improve the procurement practices of states that use federal funding to purchase or build software.

**Post Product Development Support** — Ended at this phase. [Final report](https://docs.google.com/document/d/14oNJx0vf1Vvv7XEYVT9PVSPch4XGoQ7gpfNmW0NtvCk/edit#heading=h.1ov9ijvc1e45) and presentation [here](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1_L5gM5wtjDxshVhHYgCySY62ECeErGB0ncpX-ZdJ994/edit#slide=id.p). Decision was made to not continue the project at this time, research conducted in Phase I results do not lead us a natural next step or project to direct further investigation or procurement development. The research will inform, however, how the TTS staff will structure procurements for existing and future software development projects.

**Building Modern Contract Vehicles** — Continued to next phase. [Final report here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/125n1C5OnTj2OppLKww1K5yUSVQEJ9Fqft0NvEe40DvA/edit?ts=5b50f4b9#heading=h.jmjn81mtfaop). Decision was made to continue this project at the $175k Discovery phase. The project team recognized multiple areas of focus, which will allow us to learn from vendors, agency partners, and acquisition experts outside of TTS, drawing on a diverse set of experiences and applications to make recommendations about methods that can work for procurement of agile services government-wide.

## Phase Two. Discovery

**Eligibility Rules Service** — Continued to next phase. [Final presentation here](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1L4WRCWdECzJRBtNUudb7-SWUUyCcJSyDurBOwDQyp58/edit#slide=id.g35c391991b_0_12). [README](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1P0bw0SktDvCNITRj_aUuxPrUqh1W9xA5jnXOTZtOFM8/edit). Decision was made to continue this project at the $650k Development phase. The PAB believes this project has a lot of potential and is excited to see progress continue. They highlighted several questions and concerns they want the project team to keep in mind and focus on during the build stage: Get client involvement early to maximize adoption potential, be aware for any policy changes that may help or hinder adoption of this tool, secure stakeholder commitment to ensure the product is used after Phase 3 funding has ended, and ensure that TTS has the legal authority to work with States. The TTS Commissioner has offered to help connect the project team with contacts at USDA--one of the project’s primary stakeholders.

**Notification Services** — Ended at this phase. [Final presentation here](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1mMtV_6CLa7wTx3XTBD7DoUhl-1jNh3Rk0tNBSKHzHoY/edit). NaaS was not selected for further funding. The PAB saw promise in the idea, but there were underlying concerns that led them to the decision against proceeding to Phase Three. The major concern was that TTS is not yet ready to take on another large-scale project with high up-front costs when we currently have both Login and cloud.gov struggling to become cost recoverable. A further concern was the ability of TTS to sustain a dedicated team for this project in the long-term. The PAB is open to considering NaaS again at some point in the future.

There are still a lot of lessons to be learned from the great work the team undertook. The PAB expressed interest in revisiting this project in the future — perhaps a year from now if the staffing and financial situation at TTS has changed.

**Federal Grantee Reporting** — Continued to next phase. [Final presentation here](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1w1N7bTz0fQ8e8MePlY3t6T450eYBlBVweEdZIQQ3rkI/edit#slide=id.g3770e36ff6_0_0). [README](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1wPUrxa6gfxdDVDQu4Z8xduz4TYo_EfwuZg5CJ_Ex4cA/edit). Decision was made to continue this project at the $650k Development phase. The PAB believes this project has “transformative potential” and was encouraged by Phase 2 results. They have advised the project team to consider the hand-off of product ownership and get OMB involvement early on in Phase 3.

**U.S. Data Federation** — Continued to next phase. [Final presentation here](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1nPdhy0EnYXKFgm8aMfjwFSKu5kcxkjCai52uRXzOCfo/edit#slide=id.g3d2d046014_7_0). [README](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1oVVENSZxRC8r7eJyIqr72ajss4DyaAVvRyH_ZpYY04c/edit). Decision was made to continue this project at the $650k Development phase. 10x is funding this project because federated data efforts are increasingly seen as an engine for transparency, economic growth, and accountability, yet collecting that data remains a challenge. Despite the fact that efforts of this sort are increasing in frequency, agencies often have to build new efforts from scratch. Investment in reusable tools and approaches will streamline federated data efforts in the years to come. The PAB has requested regular check-ins with the project team going forward to ensure that implementation and partner milestones are proceeding as planned.

## Phase Three. Development
